# FantasyFootball
Fantasy Football Draft Strategy Analysis
https://www.canva.com/design/DAFmSK-R0Tc/mNw1By_rtc3WW0Y--_GFbQ/view?utm_content=DAFmSK-R0Tc&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=link&utm_source=publishsharelink

Overview
This project provides an analysis of fantasy football data to help fantasy football enthusiasts make informed decisions during their drafts and throughout the season. It includes data processing, exploratory analysis, and key insights for player selection.

Features
Data Processing: The project processes raw data from various sources, cleans and combines the data to create a unified dataset for analysis.
Fantasy_half_ppr_pts2018.csv, Fantasy_half_ppr_pts2019.csv, Fantasy_half_ppr_pts2020.csv, Fantasy_half_ppr_pts2021.csv, Fantasy_half_ppr_pts2022.csv, FantasyPros_2023_Draft_ALL_Rankings.csv)

Exploratory Analysis: It performs exploratory analysis on player statistics, such as touchdowns, interceptions, total points, and more. It provides visualizations and summaries to gain insights into player performance.
Positional Analysis: The project analyzes player performance by position (QB, RB, WR, TE) and identifies top players in each position based on various metrics.
Draft Strategy: It offers guidance on avoiding overloading your team with players from the same team and emphasizes the importance of sticking to your own draft strategy.
Installation
To run this project locally, follow these steps:

Clone the repository: git clone https://github.com/Travis37115/FantasyFootball
Navigate to the project directory: cd fantasy-football-analysis
Install the required dependencies: pip install -r requirements.txt
Run the main script: python main.py
Access the results and visualizations generated by the project.
Data Sources
FantasyPros.com - Provides player statistics and fantasy scoring data.
NFL.com Offers additional player and team information.
Usage
Modify the data processing script (data_processing.py) to include your own data sources or customize the data cleaning steps.
Explore different analysis techniques and metrics by extending the codebase.
Visualize the results using libraries such as Matplotlib, Seaborn, or Plotly.
Incorporate machine learning models for player projections or team optimization.
Contributing
Contributions to this project are welcome! If you find any issues or have ideas for improvements, please open an issue or submit a pull request. Remember to adhere to the project's code of conduct.
